# Time-Series-Analysis-of-MLB-Attendance
This is my final project for my Predictive Analytics class at the University of Notre Dame, completed with my classmates Quinn Brennan and Peter Nicklow. 

## Data
The dataset used can be found in the file `games.csv` and was sourced from Kaggle. The first step in this project was data cleansing. In order to prepare the data to accurately perform time-series analysis to predict attendance, we had to remove several unnecessary variables, account for outliers and inaccurate data, and deal with stadiums that had been renamed or entered into the dataset improperly. Additionally, in order to standardize the results, we had to enter the total attendance capacity at every MLB stadium and create a new variable that calculates the percentage of capacity filled by the fans. After performing these data cleansing and preparation steps, we were ready to perform our time-series analysis. 

## ARMAX Model 
Our goal with this project was to predict and compare the average attendance for the Chicago Cubs, who have a very high average attendance, against the average attendance of the Miami Marlins, who typically have very low attendance. We wanted to see if we could identify if there were any external factors that caused the Cubs to have a much higher attendance and predict the attendance for both teams. The first step in modeling the attendance of these two teams was removing time-related trends from the attendance data which involved accounting for seasonal, linear, quadratic, and cubic trends as well as structural breaks. After detrending the attendance data, we then detrended the independent variables we were studying to see how they impacted attendance. The independent variables we considered were temperature, precipitation, and start-time delay as we figured these three factors could have a large effect on the attendance at baseball games. After detrending both the attendance data and the independent variables we were ready to train our ARMAX models and use them to create forecasts. 

## Results 
While both ARMAX models were able to produce accurate predictions for attendance at the two MLB stadiums, we did not find convincing evidence that any of the external regressors (temperature, precipitation, or start-time delay) likely had a strong impact on the difference in attendance for Cubs and Marlins games.
